[Music]
how do you imagine a lighthouse keepers
job probably like an introvert paradise
here alone on a rock in the middle of
the sea looking out at the raging waves
keeping the light on but lack of people
around you has its downside too no one
will know if something happens to you
and that was exactly the case with the
keepers of the Flannan Isles lighthouse
it was a fine and calm day on December
15 1900
lighthouses aren't crucial for the
safety of passing ships but still it was
unusual for the arched or a steamer
passing by the Flannan Isles on its way
from Philadelphia
to notice that the lighthouse on Eileen
Moore was not operational the ship's
captain noted it in his log and left it
at that so it was only three days later
when the arch tour arrived to the port
of Leith that this strangeness was
reported a ship was immediately rigged
with a relief lighthouse keeper Joseph
Moore to be delivered to Eileen Moore
but the weather had been bad since the
day before and it couldn't set sail for
more than a week finally on December 26
to things happen Hesperus that was the
name of the relief boat arrived at the
lighthouse and it became obvious that it
had been abandoned all this time the
lighthouse had been manned by three
people james Duquette and thomas
Marshall the regular keepers and Donald
MacArthur the occasional who was then
substituting for another keeper on sick
leave there was a fourth - a rotating
man who was on shore at the time the
Hesperus is crew however was met with
dead silence
it seemed that none of the keepers were
present otherwise at least one of them
would have been waiting for the ship on
the dock that was an alarming sign but
not the only one upon arrival James
Harvey captain of the ship also noticed
that there was no signal flag on the
flag staff to welcome the relief boat
and all the supply crates had been left
on the landing while they should have
been
side Harvie blew the ships whistle no
reaction a flare was fired in the air
but that had no effect either the sense
of unease grew on the Hesperus and more
decided to deploy a boat and go on shore
alone to investigate it was ominously
quiet on the island
the lighthouse stood dark and lifeless
only seagulls keeping accompany Moore
went on to explore the territory and the
building itself and what he found
unsettled him even further there was no
sign of the keepers not even a trace
left both the main gate and the entrance
door to the lighthouse were closed the
beds were unmade and most eerily all the
clocks stopped that meant that the men
were absent for more than a week pensive
and alarmed Moore returned to the ship
and took three volunteers back to the
shore for further investigation inside
the lighthouse they saw other signs that
the keepers went out in a hurry
there was an overturned chair near the
dinner table and two of the three
protective oilskin coats were missing a
third was still on the hook which was
strange the weather during the past week
was terrible so why would one of the men
leave the building without protection
and in any case the rules dictated that
there should always be at least one
keeper on the post tending to the
lighthouse for all three of them to
leave at once something bad must have
happened when the men returned to the
Hesperus captain Harvey used the
Telegraph to send a note to the northern
Lighthouse board
it said that a dreadful accident had
happened at the flan 'its and that all
the keepers had disappeared his guess
was that poor souls had been swept away
by the raging sea or had fallen from a
cliff Harvey requested an official
investigation to be conducted and on
December 29th Robert Muirhead a northern
Lighthouse Board Superintendent arrived
to do just that and here's where the
weirdest things started to come up your
head found
the lighthouse logbook that the men kept
until their disappearance that is about
dinnertime of December 15th on December
12th Thomas Marshall wrote that there
were severe winds the likes of which he
had never seen in 20 years also the two
other men began acting in a highly
unusual way Duquette according to the
logbook was very quiet and MacArthur was
crying highly unusual in this regard was
a huge understatement though all three
of the keepers were tough hardened men
and MacArthur was a veteran Mariner it
was simply impossible that he could have
been crying because of the storm no
matter how bad it was the entry from
December 13th said that the winds were
still howling and the sea was even more
violent than the day before the log
implied that the three men were
terrified which was again very strange
since they were experienced keepers and
knew they were safe inside the
lighthouse the elements could do nothing
against a sturdy stone structure built
specifically to withstand rough
conditions but perhaps the most
unsettling of this all was the fact that
there were no storms on the 12th 13th or
14th of December in the area the log
said however that the skies finally
cleared only on the morning of December
15th and that was the last entry
the keepers went missing on the evening
of the same day there are so many
inconsistencies in this whole story that
it remains a mystery to this day
not only did official investigation not
find any clear evidence of what had
happened in the Eileen Moore lighthouse
but it also made the situation even more
perplexing as soon as the news reached
the mainland wild theories from all
corners of the UK started popping to the
surface not the least popular of those
was that the men had gone insane which
was not out of the question
considering the logbook entries nobody
in the area confirmed any storms so it
was either the log had been made up or
the bad weather region had been
credibly localized and since the keepers
had been behaving in a very strange way
before disappearance it seemed quite
plausible that they could have gone
crazy and maybe jumped off the island
into the sea other theories were much
less credible and speculated on anything
and everything from supernatural
activity to secret government operations
although why the government would be
interested in eliminating three
lighthouse keepers at the end of the
world remained unclear still there was
also the official version of the events
and it made at least some sense you see
the Western landing of the lighthouse
premises was severely damaged by recent
storms iron railings were bent the iron
railway beside the path was torn out of
concrete and turf had been ripped away
from the top of a cliff that stood 200
feet tall this evidence showed that the
waves and the wind had been particularly
savage and there lay the explanation to
the mysterious vanishing of the keepers
on the 15th of December two of the men
must have gone out into the storm to
secure the box on the western landing
which contained mooring ropes they had
been out for some time when the third
one left inside as the rules required
noticed an abnormally large wave coming
down on the island and fast he reasoned
there was no time to waste left to his
feet overturning the chair he had been
sitting on and rushed off to warn the
other two of the imminent danger he was
in a big hurry so he didn't stop to grab
his oilskin coat on the way out but
apparently he was late when he reached
his fellow keepers the wave had already
come to the island and as they were all
dangerously close to the ledge it swept
them from the landing it seems a
plausible enough theory but there are a
couple of gaps in it first it doesn't
explain where the storm even came from
the keepers disappeared in the evening
of December 15th and by all accounts the
weather that day was fine and the sea
was calm even the keepers own logbook
confirmed that so how would a
huge wave appear on that day without any
warning and secondly again according to
the entries in the lighthouse logbook
the damage to the western landing had
been done before the men's disappearance
so they had witnessed the mayhem but had
not in fact gone out into it since 1900
many more theories had been born
including freak waves washing away one
of the men and the others being swept
away while helping him also some
theorized that a big wave might have
entered a narrow gully by the western
landing and burst back with force
pushing the men who were trying to
secure their equipment over the edge in
this theory the third keeper was also
running to help his colleagues but
suffered the same fate as them but
whatever hypotheses credible or
nonsensical were given none of them have
given us any clue as to what really
happened to the three bold men from
Eileen Moore who knows maybe someday
holds the answers so what do you think
caused the lighthouse keepers to
disappear from the island let me know
down in the comments if you learn
something new today
then give this video a like and share
with a friend but hey don't go missing
just yet
uh-huh we have over 2,000 cool videos
for you to check out all you have to do
is pick the left or right video click on
it and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life